.TH NM-CONVERTER 1 "2025" "netctl" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nm-converter \- convert NetworkManager configuration files to netctl format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm-converter
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nm-converter
converts NetworkManager .nmconnection files to netctl .nctl format.
This tool helps migrate from NetworkManager to netctl by converting existing
network configurations.
.PP
The converter supports most common NetworkManager configuration options including
ethernet, WiFi, bridge, VLAN, and VPN connections. Some advanced or
NetworkManager-specific features may not be fully supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -o, --output \fIFILE\fR
Write output to FILE instead of stdout
.TP
.B -d, --directory \fIDIR\fR
Convert all .nmconnection files in DIR
.TP
.B --output-dir \fIDIR\fR
Output directory for batch conversion (used with --directory)
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enable verbose output showing conversion details
.TP
.B --dry-run
Show what would be converted without writing files
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help information
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print version information
.SH FILE FORMAT
.SS Input Format
NetworkManager .nmconnection files use INI-style key-value format with sections:
.IP \[bu] 2
[connection] - connection metadata
.IP \[bu]
[ethernet] - ethernet settings
.IP \[bu]
[wifi] - WiFi settings
.IP \[bu]
[ipv4] - IPv4 configuration
.IP \[bu]
[ipv6] - IPv6 configuration
.IP \[bu]
And others...
.SS Output Format
netctl .nctl files use TOML format. See
.BR netctl.nctl (5)
for complete format specification.
.SH CONVERSION DETAILS
.SS Supported Features
.TP
.B Connection types
Ethernet, WiFi (infrastructure and AP), bridge, VLAN, OpenVPN, WireGuard
.TP
.B IP configuration
DHCP (auto), static addresses, gateway, DNS servers, IPv4 and IPv6
.TP
.B WiFi security
Open, WPA-PSK, WPA2-PSK, WPA3-SAE
.TP
.B Bridge settings
Member interfaces, STP
.TP
.B VLAN settings
Parent interface, VLAN ID
.SS Unsupported Features
.TP
.B WiFi 802.1X/Enterprise
WPA-EAP configurations require manual setup
.TP
.B Advanced routing
Policy routing, multiple routing tables
.TP
.B Team interfaces
NetworkManager team devices (use bridge instead)
.TP
.B Advanced VPN
L2TP, PPTP, strongSwan (only OpenVPN and WireGuard supported)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Convert a single file:
.EX
nm-converter /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/WiFi.nmconnection
.EE
.TP
Convert to specific output file:
.EX
nm-converter -o /etc/netctl/wifi.nctl \\
    /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/WiFi.nmconnection
.EE
.TP
Convert all files in directory:
.EX
nm-converter -d /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections \\
    --output-dir /etc/netctl
.EE
.TP
Dry run to preview conversion:
.EX
nm-converter --dry-run -v \\
    /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/Ethernet.nmconnection
.EE
.TP
Batch convert with verbose output:
.EX
nm-converter -v -d /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections \\
    --output-dir /etc/netctl
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Conversion successful
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments or file not found
.TP
.B 2
Parse error in input file
.TP
.B 3
Unsupported configuration detected
.TP
.B 4
Write error
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/*.nmconnection
NetworkManager system connection files
.TP
.I /etc/netctl/*.nctl
netctl connection configuration files
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/netctl/examples/*.nmconnection
Example NetworkManager configurations
.SH NOTES
.SS Post-Conversion Steps
After converting configurations:
.IP 1. 3
Review converted .nctl files for accuracy
.IP 2.
Test connections with
.B netctl connection up
.IP 3.
Disable NetworkManager if switching permanently
.IP 4.
Enable netctl systemd services if needed
.SS UUID Preservation
The converter preserves UUIDs from NetworkManager configurations when possible.
This helps maintain consistency across tools.
.SS Passwords and Secrets
NetworkManager stores passwords separately in keyring files. The converter
will indicate when passwords need to be manually added to .nctl files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR netctl (1),
.BR netctl.nctl (5),
.BR NetworkManager (8),
.BR nmcli (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written for the netctl project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs via GitHub issues. Include input .nmconnection file when reporting
conversion issues.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025. License: MIT OR Apache-2.0
